README.md, before:

# MATLAB Skills for Claude

A community-driven collection of [Claude Skills](https://www.anthropic.com/news/skills) for MATLAB development. Skills are specialized instruction sets that extend Claude's capabilities for specific tasks, automatically activating when needed.

## What are Skills?

Skills are modular, portable capabilities that work across all Claude platforms:

- **Composable**: Skills stack together automatically when needed
- **Portable**: Write once, use everywhere (Claude.ai, Claude Desktop, Claude Code, API)
- **Efficient**: Only load when relevant to your current task
- **Powerful**: Combine instructions with executable code for reliable results

## Available Skills

### 🔬 MATLAB Live Script Generator
**Skill ID**: `matlab-live-script`

Creates properly formatted MATLAB plain text Live Scripts (.m files) with rich text documentation, equations, and visualizations. Automatically handles:

- Correct section formatting with `%[text]` markers
- LaTeX equation rendering with double backslashes
- Bulleted lists with proper termination
- Required appendix formatting
- Plot and figure management
- Code and documentation integration

**When it activates**: Creating MATLAB scripts, educational content, Live Scripts, or .m files with documentation.

### ✅ MATLAB Test Generator
**Skill ID**: `matlab-test-generator`

Creates comprehensive unit tests using the MATLAB Testing Framework. Generates test classes, test methods, and test suites following best practices:

- Class-based test structure with `matlab.unittest.TestCase`
- Proper test method naming and organization
- Comprehensive assertion methods (`verifyEqual`, `verifyError`, etc.)
- Parameterized tests for data-driven testing
- Setup and teardown methods for test fixtures
- Test tagging and selective execution
- Mock objects and performance testing

**When it activates**: Generating test files, test cases, unit tests, test suites, or when testing MATLAB code is requested.

### ⚡ MATLAB Performance Optimizer
**Skill ID**: `matlab-performance-optimizer`

Optimizes MATLAB code for better performance through vectorization, memory management, and profiling guidance:

- Vectorization of loops and operations
- Array preallocation strategies
- Memory optimization techniques (data types, sparse matrices)
- Profiling and benchmarking workflows
- Built-in function usage over manual implementations
- Parallel computing with `parfor` and GPU arrays
- Algorithm-specific optimizations
- Performance pitfall identification

**When it activates**: User requests optimization, mentions slow code, performance issues, speed improvements, or asks to make code faster or more efficient.

### 🌐 MATLAB uihtml App Builder
**Skill ID**: `matlab-uihtml-app-builder`

Builds interactive web applications using HTML/JavaScript interfaces with MATLAB computational backends via the uihtml component:

- Bidirectional HTML-MATLAB communication patterns
- Event handling and data transfer strategies
- Security and input validation best practices
- Complete working examples (calculator, visualizer, forms)
- Modern UI design with CSS styling
- Error handling and debugging techniques
- Performance optimization for web apps
- Testing strategies for HTML/MATLAB integration

**When it activates**: Creating HTML-based MATLAB apps, JavaScript MATLAB interfaces, web UIs, interactive GUIs, or when user mentions uihtml, HTML, JavaScript, web apps, or web interfaces.

## Installation & Usage

### Claude Code (CLI)

**Recommended**: Install all skills together as a plugin:

```bash
/plugin install github:matlab/skills
```

This installs all MATLAB skills (`matlab-live-script`, `matlab-test-generator`, `matlab-performance-optimizer`, `matlab-uihtml-app-builder`) in one command. Skills automatically activate when Claude detects relevant tasks.

**Alternative**: Manually install to your personal skills directory:

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/matlab/skills.git

# Copy all skills to your Claude skills directory
cp -r skills/skills/* ~/.claude/skills/
```

Once installed, just ask Claude to "create a MATLAB Live Script" or "optimize this code" and the appropriate skill will load automatically.

### Claude.ai (Web)

Skills are available to Pro, Max, Team, and Enterprise users. Each skill must be uploaded separately as a ZIP file.

**Uploading Skills:**

1. Navigate to **Settings** → **Capabilities**
2. Enable Skills (Team/Enterprise admins must enable organization-wide first)
3. Click **Upload Skill** for each skill you want to add

**Creating ZIP Files:**

Each skill requires a ZIP file with `SKILL.md` at the root level:

```bash
# Navigate to the skills directory
cd skills

# Create ZIP for each skill
zip -r matlab-live-script.zip matlab-live-script/SKILL.md
zip -r matlab-test-generator.zip matlab-test-generator/SKILL.md
zip -r matlab-performance-optimizer.zip matlab-performance-optimizer/SKILL.md
zip -r matlab-uihtml-app-builder.zip matlab-uihtml-app-builder/SKILL.md
```

Upload all ZIP files to get the complete MATLAB skills collection. Skills work transparently - Claude automatically uses them when appropriate.

### Claude Desktop

Each skill must be uploaded separately as a ZIP file.

**Uploading Skills:**

1. Open **Settings** → **Capabilities**
2. Enable the Skills feature
3. Click **Upload Skill** for each skill you want to add

**Creating ZIP Files:**

Each skill requires a ZIP file with `SKILL.md` at the root level:

```bash
# Navigate to the skills directory
cd skills

# Create ZIP for each skill
zip -r matlab-live-script.zip matlab-live-script/SKILL.md
zip -r matlab-test-generator.zip matlab-test-generator/SKILL.md
zip -r matlab-performance-optimizer.zip matlab-performance-optimizer/SKILL.md
zip -r matlab-uihtml-app-builder.zip matlab-uihtml-app-builder/SKILL.md
```

Upload all ZIP files to get the complete MATLAB skills collection. Skills integrate seamlessly with your desktop workflow.

### Claude API

Use the Skills API for programmatic control:

```python
import anthropic

client = anthropic.Anthropic(api_key="your-api-key")

response = client.messages.create(
    model="claude-sonnet-4-5-20250929",
    max_tokens=4096,
    skills=["matlab-live-script"],
    messages=[
        {"role": "user", "content": "Create a Live Script showing Fourier transforms"}
    ]
)
```

**Requirements**:
- Skills API access (see [API documentation](https://docs.anthropic.com/))
- Code Execution Tool beta enabled

## Repository Structure

```
skills/
├── .claude-plugin/
│   └── plugin.json                 # Plugin manifest for Claude Code
├── skills/
│   ├── matlab-live-script/         # Live Script generation skill
│   │   └── SKILL.md
│   ├── matlab-test-generator/      # Unit testing skill
│   │   └── SKILL.md
│   ├── matlab-performance-optimizer/  # Performance optimization skill
│   │   └── SKILL.md
│   └── matlab-uihtml-app-builder/  # HTML/JavaScript app builder skill
│       └── SKILL.md
├── README.md                       # This file
├── CONTRIBUTING.md                 # Contribution guidelines
└── LICENSE                         # MathWorks BSD-3-Clause License
```

## Contributing

We welcome contributions! Whether you want to:

- Add new MATLAB skills (code generation, debugging, testing, etc.)
- Improve existing skills
- Fix bugs or typos
- Suggest enhancements

Please see [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for detailed guidelines.

### Quick Start for Contributors

1. Fork this repository
2. Create a new skill directory: `skills/your-skill-name/`
3. Add a `SKILL.md` file with proper frontmatter
4. Test thoroughly with Claude Code
5. Submit a pull request

## Skill Development Resources

- [Official Skills Documentation](https://docs.claude.com/en/docs/claude-code/skills)
- [Agent Skills Specification](https://github.com/anthropics/skills/blob/main/agent_skills_spec.md)
- [Anthropic Skills Repository](https://github.com/anthropics/skills)
- [Claude Code Plugin Guide](https://docs.claude.com/en/docs/claude-code/plugins)

## Related Projects

- [matlab/prompts](https://github.com/matlab/prompts) - AI coding prompts for MATLAB development
- [anthropics/skills](https://github.com/anthropics/skills) - Official Anthropic skills repository

## License

This project is licensed under the MathWorks BSD-3-Clause License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

Copyright (c) 2025, The MathWorks, Inc. All rights reserved.

## Community

- **Issues**: Report bugs or request features via [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/matlab/skills/issues)
- **Discussions**: Share ideas and ask questions in [MATLAB Central GenAI Discussions Channel](https://www.mathworks.com/matlabcentral/discussions/ai)

---

**Note**: Skills require Claude models with Code Execution Tool support. Feature availability may vary by plan and platform.

Commit message:

Revise README for coding agents and skill descriptions
Updated project name and references from 'Claude' to 'coding agents'. Revised skill descriptions for clarity and consistency.

README.md, after:

# MATLAB Skills for Coding Agents

A collection of [Agent Skills](https://www.anthropic.com/news/skills) for MATLAB development using coding agents. Skills are specialized instruction sets that extend the capabilities of coding agents for specific tasks, automatically activating when needed.

## What are Skills?

Skills are modular, portable capabilities that work across coding agents:

- **Composable**: Skills stack together automatically when needed
- **Efficient**: Only load when relevant to your current task
- **Powerful**: Combine instructions with executable code for reliable results

## Available Skills

### MATLAB Live Script Generator
**Skill ID**: `matlab-live-script`

Creates properly formatted MATLAB plain text Live Scripts (.m files) with rich text documentation, equations, and visualizations. Automatically handles:

- Section formatting with `%[text]` markers
- LaTeX equation rendering with double backslashes
- Bulleted lists with proper termination
- Required appendix formatting
- Plot and figure management
- Code and documentation integration

**When it activates**: Creating MATLAB scripts, educational content, Live Scripts, or .m files with documentation.

### MATLAB Test Generator
**Skill ID**: `matlab-test-generator`

Creates unit tests using the MATLAB Testing Framework. Generates test classes, test methods, and test suites following best practices:

- Class-based test structure with `matlab.unittest.TestCase`
- Proper test method naming and organization
- Comprehensive assertion methods (`verifyEqual`, `verifyError`, etc.)
- Parameterized tests for data-driven testing
- Setup and teardown methods for test fixtures
- Test tagging and selective execution
- Mock objects and performance testing

**When it activates**: Generating test files, test cases, unit tests, test suites, or when testing MATLAB code is requested.

### MATLAB Performance Optimizer
**Skill ID**: `matlab-performance-optimizer`

Optimizes MATLAB code for better performance through vectorization, memory management, and profiling guidance:

- Vectorization of loops and operations
- Array preallocation strategies
- Memory optimization techniques (data types, sparse matrices)
- Profiling and benchmarking workflows
- Built-in function usage over manual implementations
- Parallel computing with `parfor` and GPU arrays
- Algorithm-specific optimizations
- Performance pitfall identification

**When it activates**: User requests optimization, mentions slow code, performance issues, speed improvements, or asks to make code faster or more efficient.

### MATLAB uihtml App Builder
**Skill ID**: `matlab-uihtml-app-builder`

Builds interactive web applications using HTML/JavaScript interfaces with MATLAB computational backends via the uihtml component:

- Bidirectional HTML-MATLAB communication patterns
- Event handling and data transfer strategies
- Security and input validation best practices
- Complete working examples (calculator, visualizer, forms)
- Modern UI design with CSS styling
- Error handling and debugging techniques
- Performance optimization for web apps
- Testing strategies for HTML/MATLAB integration

**When it activates**: Creating HTML-based MATLAB apps, JavaScript MATLAB interfaces, web UIs, interactive GUIs, or when user mentions uihtml, HTML, JavaScript, web apps, or web interfaces.

## Installation & Usage

### Claude Code (CLI)

**Recommended**: Install all skills together as a plugin:

```bash
/plugin install github:matlab/skills
```

This installs all MATLAB skills (`matlab-live-script`, `matlab-test-generator`, `matlab-performance-optimizer`, `matlab-uihtml-app-builder`) in one command. Skills automatically activate when Claude detects relevant tasks.

**Alternative**: Manually install to your personal skills directory:

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/matlab/skills.git

# Copy all skills to your Claude skills directory
cp -r skills/skills/* ~/.claude/skills/
```

Once installed, just ask Claude to "create a MATLAB Live Script" or "optimize this code" and the appropriate skill will load automatically.

### Claude.ai (Web)

Skills are available to Pro, Max, Team, and Enterprise users. Each skill must be uploaded separately as a ZIP file.

**Uploading Skills:**

1. Navigate to **Settings** → **Capabilities**
2. Enable Skills (Team/Enterprise admins must enable organization-wide first)
3. Click **Upload Skill** for each skill you want to add

**Creating ZIP Files:**

Each skill requires a ZIP file with `SKILL.md` at the root level:

```bash
# Navigate to the skills directory
cd skills

# Create ZIP for each skill
zip -r matlab-live-script.zip matlab-live-script/SKILL.md
zip -r matlab-test-generator.zip matlab-test-generator/SKILL.md
zip -r matlab-performance-optimizer.zip matlab-performance-optimizer/SKILL.md
zip -r matlab-uihtml-app-builder.zip matlab-uihtml-app-builder/SKILL.md
```

Upload all ZIP files to get the complete MATLAB skills collection. Skills work transparently - Claude automatically uses them when appropriate.

### Claude Desktop

Each skill must be uploaded separately as a ZIP file.

**Uploading Skills:**

1. Open **Settings** → **Capabilities**
2. Enable the Skills feature
3. Click **Upload Skill** for each skill you want to add

**Creating ZIP Files:**

Each skill requires a ZIP file with `SKILL.md` at the root level:

```bash
# Navigate to the skills directory
cd skills

# Create ZIP for each skill
zip -r matlab-live-script.zip matlab-live-script/SKILL.md
zip -r matlab-test-generator.zip matlab-test-generator/SKILL.md
zip -r matlab-performance-optimizer.zip matlab-performance-optimizer/SKILL.md
zip -r matlab-uihtml-app-builder.zip matlab-uihtml-app-builder/SKILL.md
```

Upload all ZIP files to get the complete MATLAB skills collection. Skills integrate seamlessly with your desktop workflow.

### Claude API

Use the Skills API for programmatic control:

```python
import anthropic

client = anthropic.Anthropic(api_key="your-api-key")

response = client.messages.create(
    model="claude-sonnet-4-5-20250929",
    max_tokens=4096,
    skills=["matlab-live-script"],
    messages=[
        {"role": "user", "content": "Create a Live Script showing Fourier transforms"}
    ]
)
```

**Requirements**:
- Skills API access (see [API documentation](https://docs.anthropic.com/))
- Code Execution Tool beta enabled

## Repository Structure

```
skills/
├── .claude-plugin/
│   └── plugin.json                 # Plugin manifest for Claude Code
├── skills/
│   ├── matlab-live-script/         # Live Script generation skill
│   │   └── SKILL.md
│   ├── matlab-test-generator/      # Unit testing skill
│   │   └── SKILL.md
│   ├── matlab-performance-optimizer/  # Performance optimization skill
│   │   └── SKILL.md
│   └── matlab-uihtml-app-builder/  # HTML/JavaScript app builder skill
│       └── SKILL.md
├── README.md                       # This file
├── CONTRIBUTING.md                 # Contribution guidelines
└── LICENSE                         # MathWorks BSD-3-Clause License
```

## Contributing

We welcome contributions! Whether you want to:

- Add new MATLAB skills (code generation, debugging, testing, etc.)
- Improve existing skills
- Fix bugs or typos
- Suggest enhancements

Please see [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for detailed guidelines.

### Quick Start for Contributors

1. Fork this repository
2. Create a new skill directory: `skills/your-skill-name/`
3. Add a `SKILL.md` file with proper frontmatter
4. Test thoroughly with a coding agent
5. Submit a pull request

## Skill Development Resources

- [Official Skills Documentation](https://docs.claude.com/en/docs/claude-code/skills)
- [Agent Skills Specification](https://github.com/anthropics/skills/blob/main/agent_skills_spec.md)
- [Anthropic Skills Repository](https://github.com/anthropics/skills)
- [Claude Code Plugin Guide](https://docs.claude.com/en/docs/claude-code/plugins)

## Related Projects

- [matlab/prompts](https://github.com/matlab/prompts) - AI coding prompts for MATLAB development
- [anthropics/skills](https://github.com/anthropics/skills) - Official Anthropic skills repository

## License

This project is licensed under the MathWorks BSD-3-Clause License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

Copyright (c) 2025-2026, The MathWorks, Inc. All rights reserved.

## Community

- **Issues**: Report bugs or request features via [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/matlab/skills/issues)
- **Discussions**: Share ideas and ask questions in [MATLAB Central GenAI Discussions Channel](https://www.mathworks.com/matlabcentral/discussions/ai)

---

**Note**: Skills require models with Code Execution Tool support. Feature availability may vary by plan and platform.
